h3. The Work Playlist

Writing software can be tedious work at times when 90% of it becomes testing and fixing bugs. So to ease the time and calm down your nerves, it's a great practice to listen to some good music. For me, when I am working, "good" music will usually refer to soundtracks, bit of Jazz and a few episodes of Back To Work[1]. But instead of manually selecting the specific tracks one at a time, I created a smart playlist that would suffice as my "Work playlist".
		
Not too recently though, whilst listening to my shuffled "Work" playlist, I began to acknowledge the perfection[2] of some musical tracks and the displeasing tune of others, which affected me so much that I quit working and quite naturally began a filtering process of the playlist. I compiled a lengthy list of my "perfect" tracks from the playlist and sorted them according to play count. Honestly I could have done this when I created the playlist but sometimes it's good to listen to tracks that you don't like to really verify which tracks are the best for the occasion. Here are the first few sorted according to album:

_The Lord of the Rings Trilogy by Howard Shore_
* Concerning Hobbits  
* The King of the Golden Hall 
* The Grey Havens (feat. Sir James Galway) 
* Into the West (feat. Annie Lennox)

_The Very Best of Enya by Enya_
* Anywhere Is
* Only Time
* May It Be

_Creative Commons Volume. 5 by Dexter Britain[3]_
* The Time to Run
* Blissful Ignorance[4]
* Telling Stories
* The Fresh Monday[5]

_Light Of Life by Dexter Britain_
* Creaking Emotions
* Lots To Do

and here comes the Jazz...

_Night Train by The Oscar Peterson Trio_
* Night Train
* Things Ain't What They Used to Be
* Georgia on My Mind
* Bags' Groove

_Time-Out by Dave Brubeck_
* Everybody's Jumpin'

_The Essential Charlie Parker by Charlie Parker_
* K.C. Blues 

This list proved quite worthless to me, until I was reviewing _Edward Sharpe & the Magnetic Zeros_ for a friend which he said was good for work, which I argued[6]. So I showed him the list instead. Although the list is quite opinionated, the further down you go the more universal it becomes.  

fn1. Not music as such, since it's a podcast (although Merlin plays a tune once in a while). But definitely something good to pass the time.

fn2. Perfection is a word that should rarely be used to describe things, since it implies that there are no flaws, when there always will be. So in this context, I will redefine it to something with few flaws. 

fn3. I must say anyone who hasn't heard of Dexter Britain will be in for a surprise. He is by far a very talented composer and deserves decent credit for his work. http://dexterBritain.com

fn4. Reminds me of the Downton Abbey title soundtrack or at least the beginning of it.

fn5. Such a relaxing tune for the worst day of the week. 

fn6. In my opinon, the album is good for doing lesser work such as writing a property list, surfing the web or something along those lines. Preferably for intense work, music without vocals is ideal since it doesn't allow you to question what the song is about.
